Let's just dive right in to the most
craziest thing about this framework and
all the things that, hopefully,
we have a lot of questions on [LAUGH] and
stuff like that.
But I'm just gonna dive right in and kinda
talk about it because I think everything
going forward is based
off this foundation,
so I'm just gonna introduce it early on.
So there's really not a lot
of context right now, but
you will build the context later.
And that is gonna be server components.
So React server components is
a new paradigm introduced in
React 18 and
has been adopted by Next.js 13.
And basically,
the whole new premise of React.js 18 and
Next.js 13 with React Server Components
is trying to address some of the earlier
issues we've had with different types
of rendering modes in the framework.
So before we get into that,
let's just talk about like some of these
different types of rendering modes.
So the one you might be familiar with
the most is called a SPA or S-P-A,
single page application.
This is just like,
you did create React app.
And you just built something
with like React router or
some other HTML based router and you built
an app, that's a single page application.
You just have one index that HTML page in
the browser and every time you do routing,
you're just switching out that
div with another component.
But the HTML page never goes back to
the server and reloads or refetches.
So it's just a single page that switches
out components based off of a router.
And this is really cool.
This was all the crave and
the raised back then because,
it was quick, routing was fast.
You didn't have to worry
about having a server.
You can put it on a CDN,
different things like that.
But it had problems.
The browser had to download all
the JavaScript in order for
people to see things, not only to see
things but to interact with those things.
You also have problems with like crawlers.
If you paste a link to a single-page
application and something like Facebook or
Twitter, it might have been hard to
see those previews pop up because
those crawlers didn't know
how to interpret JavaScript.
And it wasn't gonna wait for
the JavaScript.
So you just wanna see your preview.
And I remember it was a time where even
Google was not good at crawling single
page applications.
So you had all these companies that would
take your app, pre-render it, spit out
the HTML and then give that to a crawler,
or even crazier, you do it dynamically,
you create your own server, detect
that like, a crawler is on my website.
Don't show them the single page
application, show them the pre-rendered
version instead, like that was a thing,
I remember having to make that.
So it was pretty nuts.
So to address that,
server side rendering came out, right?
Server side rendering is basically
kind of the same thing but
with a different first step.
So instead of like rendering
everything on the browser and
having the JavaScript be downloaded,
instead,
the initial render of that page or
that component happens on the server.
So we're gonna take that component, render
it to HTML, send that HTML to the browser,
so it shows up instantly without
any JavaScript download.
And then while that is being shown in the
background, download the JavaScript, and
then have the client version of
that same component take over,
which allows interactivity.
And that swap happens so fast that you
don't see it, but it does happen, so
that way people can see
the page immediately.
Crawlers can get the information
that they want immediately, but
you still have to wait for the JavaScript
to download in order to be interactive.
So we did solve the problem
of seeing things quickly and
solving the SEO and crawler problem.
But we didn't solve the problem of, well,
what if I wanna click on that
form as soon as I see it?
Well you can't, cuz you gotta wait for
the JavaScript to download.
And depending on your Internet connection
and how big the JavaScript was,
it could take a long time.
So then people got really fancy with like,
we'll do code splitting, so
we'll split the bundle up and
then we'll do dynamic imports.
So we only import code that like,
and then it's like yeah, but
are we really solving the problem here?
So, now this brings us to
React Server Component which tries
to solve some of these problems.
So React Server Components is basically
a new way of doing server-side
rendering that is almost like server
side rendering, except for the fact
that there is no JavaScript associated
with the components sent to the browser.
So you could actually run
a React Server Component entirely
without any JavaScript at all.
But the caveat is you can't have any
interactivity in your component either.
You still need client components for that.
But by having these server components,
this allows us to do all the data
fetching necessary for a page.
Imagine you have a blog page that
needs to get content from a CMS.
You can do that on the server while
the component is rendering and
send that back to the client
without any JavaScript added to it.
So there is no need to wait for
an entire bundle of JavaScript to download
just to see anything or interact.
And if there is some interaction on there,
well, that interaction,
that specific component that has
interaction, let's say it's a form.
Only that component can
be a client component.
So therefore, the rest of
the page doesn't have to wait for
that bundle to download to interact with
that form just so you can move around.
So things are being progressively,
what they call progressively enhanced.
So we're choosing what to download at
what specific time based off what needs
versus like, we can only
download everything at one time.
Even though, this whole page
doesn't need any interaction, but
this one component does.
But now we don't have to do that anymore.
Just download the whole page and
then when this thing needs interaction,
we can download that progressively,
we can actually stream it.
So that's kind of like
what server components is.
Next.js has taken that and
built it into the framework.
And it's actually pretty cool.
It's also slightly confusing
if you haven't worked in
a framework that switches
between client side and
server side JavaScript all in one repo and
it all looks the same.
So it's not like, well, this is Express
over here and this is React, so
I can clearly tell which one's back in and
which ones front end.
Okay, now that's not gonna happen anymore.
You are going to be writing
React components, and
they could be working on the back end or
working on the front end or both.
So like having to know which version
is doing, what is kinda confusing, but
we're gonna walk through how best not
to get confused through some of that.
So I'm gonna just talked about
a little bit about difference between
React Server Components
versus server side rendering.
But basically server side
rendering performs that.
It only does server start reading
on that initial load, right?
But then if you try to go back to it,
it's just gonna be client side routing, so
you kinda lose the benefit of that.
Whereas with React Server Components,
every time you go to it,
it's gonna render on the server.
So you always get that benefit
of never needing JavaScript.
This makes the client site bundle
predictable, and cacheable,
which is really hard to do if
the bundle size is always changing.
Now, you don't have to worry about it
changing when you add new pages, because
those pages don't contribute to the bundle
size because they are server components.
So this makes performance basically
easier to do and it's not all perfect.
But for the time being,
I think it's a really good experiment
with the React team is doing,
what the next year's team is doing,
and we'll see if it sticks.
If you ever built something in.
Let me see what's an equivalent like
Elixir, Phoenix, PHP, Ruby on Rails.
It's basically that,
where you're just doing all the logic for
a component executing on a server and
not on a client.
Yeah, that was a long spiel.
I don't expect you to remember and
know all of that.
We're gonna go through a lot
of this in examples, but
I wanted to give you that primer.
So we're gonna start mentioning some of
these words as we write the code, and
I want you to know what they are.
Cool, any questions
>> I got kind of a weird one.
Working with hot wire for rails before,
like the HTML over the wire,
ones that mostly use web
sockets under the hood.
Is that what RSC is doing too or is it?
>> So I know React 18 implements
streaming of the HTML to the browser.
I think Next.js has its own approach where
they actually just pre-rendered instead
of streaming it, the HTML, but you do have
the ability to like stream data to it.
So there is no web
socket's implemented here.
There is no real time component of
like streaming HTML, like Hotwire or
like what Elixir and Phoenix,
like what they do especially in Next.js.
They did do the pre-rendering, but
I don't think there's anything stopping
you from doing it if you want it to, but
I think next year is does just does
the pre-rendering instead of like doing
the streaming by default,
but no, great question.
But as far as like, what you get
is pretty much the same thing.